Pd 473 create task snapshot article content (#2096)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALECLIReference/Task/CLISnapshotTask.md

draft: false
tags:
- scaleclitask

> - scalesnapshots

Author: sound good.

---

{{< toc >}}

{{< include file="/_includes/CLIGuideWIP.md" type="page" >}}

## Snapshot Namespace
The **snapshot** namespace has 11 command(s), and is based on snapshot creation and management functions found in the SCALE API and web UI.
It provides access to periodic snapshot task methods through the **snapshot** commands.

## Snapshot Commands 
The following **snapshot** commands allow you to create new and manage existing periodic snapshot tasks.

You can enter commands from the main CLI prompt or from the task snapshot namespace prompt.

### Interactive Argument Editor (TUI)

{{< include file="/_includes/CLI/HintInteractiveArgsEditor.md" type="page" >}}

### Create Command 

> The `create` command creates a task to take snapshots of a given dataset at the specified schedule. 

Author: I was being lazy here and economizing on words. I'll fix this where this occurs.

| `lifetime_unit`| Yes | Use with `lifetime_value` to enter the lifetime of the snapshot, or o define a length of time to keep the snapshot on this system. After the time expires, the system removes the snapshot. Snapshots replicated to other systems are not affected. `lifetime_unit` defines the unit of measure and `lifetime_value` specifies the duration. For example, lifetime_value=364 and lifetime_unit=DAY retains the snapshot for 364 days. Lifecycle units are `HOUR`, `DAY`, `WEEK`, `MONTH`, and `YEAR`. | <code>lifetime_unit=<i>DAY</i></code> |
| `naming_schema` | Yes | Enter a naming schema to generate a name for the snapshot instead of using `name`. Enter a new schema in double-quotes, the default **auto-%Y-%m-%d_%H-%M** schema, or a naming schema from a previously created periodic snapshot task. This allows replication of the snapshot. Naming schema must include the year %Y, month %m,day %d, hour %H, and minute %M. This adds the four-digit year, month, day of month, hour, and minute as defined in strftime(3). | <code>naming_schema="<i>custom-%Y-%m-%d_._%H-%M<i/>"</code> |

> | `schedule` | Yes | Enter an array of properties that specify the date and time when the task runs and creates the snapshot. Default value is `{}` with no property arguments to accept default values for schedule properties, or enter each property argument enclosed in square brackets with double-quoted properties and values. Separate each array property argument enclosed in square brackets `[]` with a comma and space. Properties are: <br><li>`minute` specified in the format of minutes:seconds, or use the default 00:00 <br><li>`hour` specified in the format of 00 (0-23), or use the default `*` for every hour. <br><li>`dom` specify the day of month in the format of `Jan` through `Dec`, or use the default `*` for every month. <br><li>`month` specify the month specified as `jan` or use the default `*` for any month. <br><li>`dow` specify the day of week as `sun`, `mon`, `tue`, `wed`, `thu`, `fri`, or `sat`, or use the default `*` for every day of the week. <br><li>`begin` specify the earliest time the task starts in hour:minute or use the default `00:00`. <br><li>`end` specify the latest time the task can end in hour:minute, or use the default `00:00`.</li> Command example shows the default values for each property in the array. | <code>schedule={["minute"="00"], ["hour"="*"], ["dom"="*"], ["month"="*"], ["dow"="*"],["begin"="00:00"], ["end"="00:00"]}</code> |

Author: fixed issues. Removed the commas, reworded the default value sentence, dom and month are very similar so the descriptions are correct, and I fixed the syntax that was missing a space.

```
sharing nfs get_instance id=11 
+----------------+--------------------+
|             id | 11                 |
|        dataset | tank/minio         |
|      recursive | false              |
| lifetime_value | 1                  |
|  lifetime_unit | DAY                |
|        enabled | true               |
|        exclude | <empty list>       |
|  naming_schema | new-%d-%m-%Y_%H-%M |
|    allow_empty | true               |
|       schedule | <dict>             |
|    vmware_sync | false              |
|          state | <dict>             |
+----------------+--------------------+
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Max_Count Command 
The `max_count` command returns the maximum number of snapshot per dataset the system can sustain.

{{< expand "Using the Max_Count Command" "v" >}} 
#### Description  
`max_count` does not require entering property arguments. 
Enter the command then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

`max_count` returns a numeric value.

#### Usage 
From the CLI prompt, enter:

`task snapshot max_count`

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
task snapshot max_count
512
```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Max_Total_Count Command 

> The `max_total_count` command returns the maximum number of snapshot the system can sustain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `max_total_count` command returns the maximum number of snapshots the system can sustain.
```

Enter the command string then press <kbd>Enter</kbd>.

`run` returns an empty line.

#### Usage 
From the CLI prompt, enter:

<code>task snapshot run id=<i>11</i></code>

Where *11* is the ID assigned to the snapshot task.

{{< expand "Command Example" "v" >}}
```
task snapshot run id=11

```
{{< /expand >}}
{{< /expand >}}

### Update Command 
The `update` command updates the task matching the task ID entered.
Use the <code>[query](#query-command)</code> command to find the list of snapshot tasks and the task ID. 
Use the <code>[get_instance](#get-instance-command)</code> command to list the properties of the task ID before and after making changes to verify the task configuration.

{{< include file="/_includes/CLI/CLICommandWIP.md" type="page" >}}
{{< expand "Using the Update Command" "v" >}}
The `update` has one required property, `id`. 
Enter any of the property arguments found in the **[Create Command Properties](#create-command)** table to change the task settings.
Enter the property argument for `id` using `=` to separate the property and value. 
Enter property arguments with string values with the value double-quoted.

> Enclose property arguments with array values in curly brackets `{}`, then enclose each propery argument in square brackets `[]` and sparate each with a comma and space. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enclose property arguments with array values in curly brackets `{}`, then enclose each property argument in square brackets `[]` and separate each with a comma and space. 
```
